---
title: 'HMM-based Indic handwritten word recognition using zone segmentation'
publish: true
author: Ayan Das
authors: Partha Pratim Roy, Ayan Kumar Bhunia, <i>Ayan Das</i>, Prasenjit Dey, Umapada Pal
date: 2016-12-01
tags:
  - HMM
  - Indic-Script
  - Handwriting-Recognition
layout: pub
post_number: "1"
related_post_numbers: "2"
comments: false
category: pubs
---

This paper presents a novel approach towards Indic handwritten word recognition using zone-wise
information. Because of complex nature due to compound characters, modifiers, overlapping and
touching, etc., character segmentation and recognition is a tedious job in Indic scripts (e.g. Devanagari,
Bangla, Gurumukhi, and other similar scripts). To avoid character segmentation in such scripts, HMMbased
sequence modeling has been used earlier in holistic way. This paper proposes an efficient word
recognition framework by segmenting the handwritten word images horizontally into three zones (upper,
middle and lower) and recognize the corresponding zones. The main aim of this zone segmentation
approach is to reduce the number of distinct component classes compared to the total number of classes in
Indic scripts. As a result, use of this zone segmentation approach enhances the recognition performance of
the system. The components in middle zone where characters are mostly touching are recognized using
HMM. After the recognition of middle zone, HMM based Viterbi forced alignment is applied to mark the
left and right boundaries of the characters. Next, the residue components, if any, in upper and lower zones
in their respective boundary are combined to achieve the final word level recognition. Water reservoir
feature has been integrated in this framework to improve the zone segmentation and character alignment
defects while segmentation. A novel sliding window-based feature, called Pyramid Histogram of Oriented
Gradient (PHOG) is proposed for middle zone recognition. PHOG features has been compared with other
existing features and found robust in Indic script recognition. An exhaustive experiment is performed on
two Indic scripts namely, Bangla and Devanagari for the performance evaluation. From the experiment, it
has been noted that proposed zone-wise recognition improves accuracy with respect to the traditional way
of Indic word recognition.

~~~BibTex
Please site the paper as follows:

@article{roy2016hmm,
 title={HMM-based Indic handwritten word recognition using zone segmentation},
 author={Roy, Partha Pratim and Bhunia, Ayan Kumar and Das, Ayan and Dey,
Prasenjit and Pal, Umapada},
 journal={Pattern Recognition},
 volume={60},
 pages={1057--1075},
 year={2016},
 publisher={Elsevier}
}
~~~